OK.
I can't see you but I know what you're feeling.
You're doubting me right now you're thinking generators are useless.
You keep saying that they're fast and performance but I don't really get it.
This yellow keyword and this next and honestly it just it just doesn't make sense.
Let me convince you that their true power.
I'm going to select all of these and just delete them because I want to go back to an example that we've
used before.
Remember when we created the decorator performance in our decorator section using this performance decorator
let's minimize it.
I have to functions for us a longtime function that uses a range and another longtime function that
uses a range and then converts it into a list so remember one creates a list and then from that list
that's created a memory on our computers.
It's going to go one by one and multiply things by five versus a range which is a generator that comes
built into python that is going to just one by one hold zero in memory and multiply by five.
Hold one in memory but multiply by five and keeps going keeps going keeps going and removes from memory
any old numbers.
What do you think the performance of both of these will be let's test it out and by the way I'll link
to the exercise so you can test that out yourself and play around.
So let's do longtime and then longtime to place your bets.
Get ready.
Let's find out the first function longtime took one point six seconds and then the second function took
almost twice as long.
That's a pretty big difference.
Right but right away we can tell.
All right.
This is definitely more performance than well long time too.
Let's run it again just to test our assumptions.
Make sure it's correct.
This time it took one point eight and then two point six.
All right.
This is so much faster.
Even though they both do the same thing and think of this if you were Google think about how much data
Google has if you're working at Google and imagine if this was even bigger if this was even longer.
If you can't perform a task that much faster use up a lot less resources than what Google has.
I mean they would love you because with generators were able to not hold things in memory not have to
consume all that resources and instead process data efficiently and look over here I was able to solve
this function in 16 seconds.
I mean yeah that took a long time but long time to actually could even make it.
It killed the process.
If this was a Google server that's a server that just died and is completely useless so generators are
really really useful when calculating large sets of data particularly if we're using long loops where
we don't really want to store that memory and we don't need to calculate everything at the same time.
Maybe one by one and a lot of libraries in Python underneath the hood use generators instead of using
lists because there's so much faster so remember to create a generator.
All we have to do is create a generator function that we want and then in here we can just simply loop
over some value that perhaps we give it to arrange or we can just accept as parameter and all we need
to do is simply yield that result and do whatever we want in this block but make sure we pause the function
so that later on it can be used as a generator function so we can do something like a for loop and say
item in Gen function and give it some sort of parameter.